v1.0.0
======

We are excited to announce the release of version **v1.0.0**! This is the first public release of MuSpAn.

New Features
------------
* Advanced Spatial Analysis: It provides easy-to-use, flexible, and interactive access to quantitative methods developed from mathematical fields that include spatial statistics.
* Comprehensive Documentation and Tutorials: The toolbox offers over 40 in-depth user tutorials covering MuSpAn features, statistics, visualisation, and more, enabling users to effectively utilise its capabilities. 
* Multiscale by Design: MuSpAn is designed to handle multiscale data, allowing users to analyse data at multiple scales and resolutions.
* Ongoing Development: MuSpAn is under constant development, with a team of quantitative researchers continually developing new methodologies to tackle problems in analysing spatial transcriptomics, multiplex immunohistochemistry, imaging mass cytometry, and more. 
* Interactive Data Visualisation: Users can explore colored points and polygons in their datasets, enhancing the understanding of spatial relationships within the data. 
* User Support and Community Engagement: MuSpAn provides avenues for user support and encourages community engagement through mailing lists and contact options, fostering a collaborative environment for users to share insights and seek assistance.

Optimisations
-------------
*This is the first public release of MuSpAn, and no optimisations have been made yet.*

Bug Fixes
---------
*This is the first public release of MuSpAn, and no patches have been made yet.*

We appreciate all contributions and feedback that helped shape this release!

For further details, refer to the documentation and upgrade guide.

Thank you for using our software!