v1.1.0
======

We are excited to announce the release of version **v1.1.0**! This update brings significant improvements, new features, and important bug fixes to enhance functionality and documentation.
This release is compatible with Python 3.10 to 3.12.

New Features
------------
* **Optionally Exclude Self-Self Distances**: New feature allowing the exclusion of self distances in calculations.
* **Relative Neighborhood Graph Implementation**: Introduced efficient relative neighborhood graph computations.
* **Centralities Consolidated**: Centrality calculations now unified into a single function.
* **Updated Color Handling**: `update_colors` now supports label and collection names not stored in the domain.
* **New Label and Collection Functions**: Introduced `print_labels` and `print_collections`, explicitly including Pandas as a dependency.
* **Installation and Documentation Updates**: Improved installation process, versioning, and documentation clarity.
* **TDA Vectorisation**: Output of feature names.

Optimisations
-------------
* **Efficient Adjacency Significance Test**: Improved computational efficiency for adjacency significance testing.
* **Cluster Neighborhoods Parameters**: Added new parameters for better control over cluster neighborhood analysis.
* **Speed and Accuracy Improvements for Distributions**: Enhanced mesh boundary estimations for better performance.
* **Boundary Cache Infrastructure**: Updates to the boundary cache mechanism for better performance and reliability.
* **Efficient Neighborhood Clustering**: Improved clustering mechanisms for neighborhood analysis.
* **More Efficient k-Hop**: Enhancements to k-hop neighborhood calculations.
* **Memory Efficient and Scalable Proximity Networks**: Optimised proximity network computation for scalability.

Bug Fixes
---------
* Fixed various typos in tutorials and documentation.
* Remove Dependency on Simplification Library.
* Various minor fixes to improve stability and usability.
* Fixed domain cropping errors for shapes with shared boundaries.
* Resolved inconsistencies in parameter naming throughout the I/O module.
* Fixed KNN label count ordering inconsistencies.
* Addressed numerical stability in network distance calculations.
* Fixed TDA persistence issues to ensure finiteness.
* Resolved installation issues related to dependency versions.
* Various documentation fixes, including updated redirects and links.

All tutorials have been updated to reflect the changes in version **v1.1.0**. We appreciate all contributions and feedback that helped shape this release!

For further details, refer to the documentation and upgrade guide.

Thank you for using our software!