v1.2.5
======

We are pleased to announce the release of the minor update version **v1.2.5**.

This release focuses on performance improvements, new functionality, and a number of bug fixes across boundary handling, network cropping, and query behavior.

Features
--------

- **Labeled TIFF support**:

  - Added ``segmentation_mask_to_domain`` for converting labeled TIFF files into MuSpAn domains.
  - Added a small TIFF-to-dataset example to help demonstrate the workflow.

- **Version string support**:

  - Added a version string to the package for easier version tracking.

- **Expanded query and network functionality**:

  - Added more efficient similarity-weight-to-edge and network-based query handling.
  - ``print labels`` and ``print collections`` now return DataFrames.

Performance Improvements
------------------------

- **Vectorised geometry operations**:

  - Polygon distance calculations have been vectorised.
  - Point-to-line distance calculations have been optimised.
  - point in poly operations have been accelerated using Cython.

- **Improved spatial and neighbourhood computations**:

  - ``cluster_neighbourhoods`` has been optimised for continuous labels.
  - Moran's I and Getis-Ord calculations have been improved for both adjacency lookup and memory usage.
  - ``adjacency_permutation_test`` has been optimised.

- **Boundary and shape handling**:

  - ``update_circle_boundaries`` received a small optimisation.
  - Boundary shape reconstruction has been improved when rebuilding from updated boundaries.

Bug Fixes
---------

- **Crop domain and network handling**:

  - Fixed updating of networks following clipping.
  - Fixed frozen graphs in crop domain operations following deepcopy.
  - Added a test for cropping domains with networks.

- **Query and colour bar handling**:

  - Fixed duplicate collection entries in queries.
  - Improved edge weight queries to minimise duplicates in the special case where this is required.
  - Fixed null colour bar handling.

- **Plotting**:

  - Fixed plotting of PCF confidence intervals.

Maintenance
-----------

- Merged several upstream branches and internal fixes.
- Updated the package version number to **1.2.5**.

--------------

We sincerely thank all contributors and users who provided feedback to help shape this release. For detailed guidance on updating MuSpAn, please refer to the installation page.

Thank you for using **muspan**!